# Algoritmos para la detección de comunidades en redes
## Trabajo de Fin de Grado 2018-19
### Autor: Miguel Jiménez Gomis

En este repositorio se puede encontrar el trabajo de fin de grado realizado en la Universidad de La Laguna por Miguel Jiménez Gomis en el curso 2018-19.
En el repositorio puede encontrar lo siguiente:
1. Código fuente de las diferentes implementaciones. El repo es en si un proyecto de eclipse para facilitar su importación.
2. Memoria final del trabajo.  Dicha memoria se puede encontrar en el fichero con nombre [TFG.pdf](https://github.com/MiguelJG/TFG/blob/master/TFG.pdf).
3. Diapositivas de la defensa del TFG. Estas diapositivas se pueden encontrar en el fichero [DefensaTFG.pdf](https://github.com/MiguelJG/TFG/blob/master/DefensaTFG.pdf)

### Abstract
In this project, it is proposed a new algorithm for the detection of communities in networks that allows to make fast assignments to different communities in the graph, when data is in real time. The objective of this algorithm is to reduce the computational load of this analysis and provide approximate valid solutions in less time, making possible the identification of the data that exist in the intersection of the communities, to have those data points into account in order to obtain better results.
To check the viability of the proposed algorithm, an experimentation has been done with real data to have an easy way to compare with the literature, and with an artificial dataset, in order to make the analysis broader. 
The experimentation and previous analysis made in this project establish a solid base in order to keep working to complete and improve the proposed algorithm.

**Keywords**: clustering, communities, algorithm, detection, big data.

### Conclusions
The detection of communities in networks is a computationally demanding task and not having algorithms capable of analyzing data in real time in a simple and convenient way makes many investigations very difficult. In this work an algorithm has been proposed to try to solve this problem and an experimentation has been carried out to verify its viability.
As seen in chapter 5.5 Results of the computational experience, the proposed algorithm generates results that, as expected, are not as good as those generated by other algorithms, but which are promising for the provisional assignment task.
After conducting the experiment, it can be concluded that the main source of error for the intermediate results is to work on a set of initial communities that isn’t good. This step influences so much that, in order to improve the final results, research should continue in the detection of communities with few nodes and thus improve the common functioning of the algorithm.
Although the obtained results are not of the same quality as other algorithms already available, a first version of the proposed algorithm in this work could be implemented in test projects to see its performance in real use cases, since the development of the code was oriented to objects and modules in order to, in the future, facilitate the generation of an API that serves this algorithm.
With the aim of improving this algorithm and that at some point it becomes a viable product with a positive impact, a more thorough investigation of the different phases must be continued, and a more thorough experimentation must be implemented.
This TFG has given me the perfect opportunity to learn about network analysis and the many branches that are in this fascinating discipline, and thus, testing all the knowledge that I have acquired throughout these 4 years of career.
